If you find yourself banging your
head against an algorithm solution,
one of the questions that you should
somewhat regularly revisit is,
did one of my earlier decisions
put me into this position?
And could I have made a different
decision that might unstick me?
Ironically, it's somewhat like
the back tracking in recursive dissent
algorithms that we've already kind of
seen that you might go three-fourths of
the way down the tree to
one particular solution.
And then only then discover that
wasn't the optimal path and
have to some back tracking.
And sometimes you have to back
track all the way to the beginning.
Thus far, we've been trying to convince
ourselves that maybe if we just keep
plugging away at this, we're gonna get
something that looks like a more graceful,
or more direct, or more straightforward
kind of solution that's optimal.
And I think we definitely have improved
the performance of the solution
insofar as is possible.
Maybe there are a few tweaks here and
there, but
I really think that the mental
model that we used is the problem.
And that's okay.
We learned some valuable
things lessons along the way.
But sometimes, it does make sense
to go back and start from scratch.
So, I wanna show you this next slide,
you remember I told you about these
at the beginning of this exercise.
This being the major diagonals,
and the minor diagonals.
We fundamentally chose a data
structure that was oriented
horizontally and vertically.
And why do we choose that?
Well, it was quite convenient
to use the data structure of
the DOM as our earliest
bootstrapping steps.
The DOM is oriented in that way, it's kind
of very hierarchical nested in that way.
In other words,
the DOM has no notion of diagonals.
So what we have been attempting
to do is retrofit on to a data
structure that is horizontally and
vertically oriented a problem.
That is quite literally
45 degrees of skew.
You follow me?
And it's not a surprise that that only
becomes apparent when you draw it out,
I said earlier in the workshop,
don't be afraid of pulling out a pen and
a sheet of paper.
And when I was working on this problem and
trying to come up with better ways to do
things, I pulled out a sheet of paper and
I started drawing it out.
And I don't know exactly what it was,
why it happened, but
I'm gonna tell you a story as if it is,
I'm telling a story as if
this really happened even
though it technically didn't.
A little tuft of wind
blew the paper just so
it turned 45 degrees on my desk, and
the light bulb moment went off.
And what went off for me was,
why am I doing arrays have rows and
columns instead of doing
a matrices of my diagonals?
Why don't I construct a data
structure that is shaped and
oriented to the problem that
I have Instead of trying
to take the problem and
retrofit it to a data structure?
You see that?
So I want you to notice
that I have arbitrarily
indexed these major
diagonals zero through 14,
the 15 major diagonals.
I just chose this ordering, you could
have picked a different ordering but
this was convenient.
I ordered these major diagonals
zero through 14 as such.
And notice that when we look
at the minor diagonals,
I started there indexing at 15 rather than
at zero and ordered them from 15 to 29.
So there are a total of 30 diagonals,
15 major and
15 minor, and
I chose to put them in one list zero
through 29 as opposed
to two separate lists.
Is that a good or bad choice?
Could be debated, but
that's just a convention I chose, okay?
And we're gonna see what we
can do with those numbers.
Sometimes it's literally just an arbitrary
decision that you make, you put a stick
in the ground and you build the fence
around the stick, and that's all I did.
I looked at these diagonals and said,
I'm gonna treat them as a data structure.
And rather than doing like a two
dimensional set of diagonal data
structures or something, I'm just gonna
have one dimension of all my diagonals.
The first half of my data structure is the
majors and the second half is the minors,
that's it.
That's all I did, it's not very
sophisticated but I numbered them as such.
And here's what that further got me
because going back to the coordinate
system, if this is my,
we'll call it the Cartesian coordinate or
the DOM coordinate, four, two.
I need to translate that coordinate
into the diagonals coordinate system.
In other words, there's an index
of the major diagonal that four,
two square participates in, and
there's an index of the minor diagonal
that four, two participates in.
Specifically, it participates in
the major diagonal at index 5 and
the minor diagonal at index 21.
So in other words, I need a way
to convert the coordinate four,
two to the coordinate five, 21.
This is not gonna turn out to
be very much rocket science,
it's pretty straightforward math.
It might look slightly arbitrary but
if you follow along with this math,
you will see that I can take
the coordinate four minus two and
subtract that from seven and I get five.
And you think, well, there's a lot
of ways that you could have done it.
But notice that if I do that same thing
for all of the other coordinates along
that diagonal,
they all have the exact same pattern.
Which is that if I subtract the column
index from the row index and
then subtract that from seven I get,
the major diagonal index of five.
I was just messing around with numbers and
I was like, yep, that works.
And then, I tried it on the other rows,
like on row four, I mean diagonal four,
and diagonal three, and all of them.
And it turns out that math works for
all of those diagonals.
And I said, okay, well,
I've done half the problem,
I've converted my row index
into my major diagonal index.
Now, I need to convert my column
index into my minor diagonal index.
That being the general formula for
converting.
And that general formula is only the
general formula based upon the arbitrary
decisions that I made about how
I structured my data structure.
So I inferred it from looking at
the diagram that I drew out on paper.
You'd make different decisions
in your data structure,
you end up with a different formula.
But it can be the exact same concept.
You follow me?
So then we switch to the minor diagonal.
And it turns out that I can
compute 21 as taking the row
index plus the column index,
and then adding 15.
And the same is true for
all of the tiles along that diagonal and
so I have a general formula for
converting from the row and
column index to the minor diagonal.
Like that.
That means that if I had a data
structure that kept track of all of
those diagonals in those indexes, and
I click one specific diagonal and
I know what it's tile and row,
I know what its index is.
Then it's a trivial computation
mathematically to find out what
indexes of the two major and
minor diagonals I have.
And then I just need to loop over all the
elements in each of those two diagonals,
I don't need to do any math of like minus
ones and plus ones and less than or equal.
It's just all the elements in
the major diagonal collection and
all of the elements in the minor diagonal
collection I had highlighted to them,
that's it.
No math at all.
So let's do it.
First thing is that our list of tiles
in the two dimensional grid which we
thought was an improvement on the previous
stuff, we're gonna get rid of that.
Actually, we're gonna do
a lot of deleting, so
it's gonna get kind of fun here,
I love when I get to delete things.
We do need to add something, which is that
we need to keep track of our new data
structure, which I'm gonna call diagonals,
okay?
And diagonals is going to be an array,
indexed zero through 29,
so it's gonna be 30 diagonals in this,
okay?
So we need to set up those 30 diagonals.
There might be more clever
ways of doing it, but
I wanna be super obvious about it,
I'm going to
create 30 diagonals by pushing
an empty array into it 30 times.
This is setting up my
diagonals data structure.
Everybody following so far?
I can get rid of the row tiles and
tiles push, and
row tiles push,
that stuff we can get rid of.
And indeed I can get rid
of the dataset row and
dataset column stuff, and
you'll see why in just a moment.
I need to compute from the row and
column index,
which of the diagonals,
the 30 that are there,
which ones do I need to
store a reference to it and
which index do I need to put it in?
You with me?
We have those formulas on the slides and
just gonna type them out here.
If I were to say the major diagonal index,
you recall that it is seven minus
the quantity row index which is I minus J.
You remember that from the slides?
And minor diagonal index is 15 plus,
I plus J.
So I need to store the tile element
reference inside of those diagonals, so
I can say diagonals of major
Diagindx.push, tileEl,
and diagonals of minor
Diagindx.push,tileEl,
that is the constructing of my new data
structure, everybody follow that?
Each time I create a new tile elements
I make sure to insert it into
the appropriate diagonals.
Order doesn't matter within these
diagonals cuz all we're doing is
highlighting all of them
are clearing all of them.
We don't care what order it is.